So what I've said to you is that fetch,
which again, punny,
because we're working with dogs,
but fetch goes and
fetches a resource or
a piece of data from a URL.
So let's go to our console,
And try to run this line.
So the way that I call fetch is I
call fetch just like a function,
it is just a built in function with params
and then the URL that I wanna find.
And there's a bunch more
options that I could pass in.
And if we wanna read all about it,
we can read about it on MDN,
there's lots more details.
But from now, let's just call
it with the name of this URL.
What the crap is that?
[LAUGH] So I called fetch on this URL,
and JavaScript gave me back
something that's calling a promise,
and I sure don't see any hounds.
I don't know about y'all but
it is not the same as what we wanted here
which is afghan, basset, blood, etc.
So what is going on and that is the next
thing we need to wrap our heads around.
Promises, so
promises are something that comes into
play in JavaScript when we are doing
things that take a long time,
or looking for things that we
are going to need some time to find.
And as Issa Rae is
hinting at when she says,
I promise you can always be in my loop.
Promises have to do with
that event loop and
the asynchronous code that we talk about.
Because promises are something that
comes into play when we're working with
operations that take a long time like
fetch, which it might take a long time for
me to go talk to the dog API and
come back with the data.
So it takes a while for fetch and
many other things in JavaScript to do what
it's trying to do, which is grab
the piece of information at this URL.
And so what JavaScript does is
it kind of writes us an IOU for
the actual data, the actual value of
the thing that we're looking for,
because it doesn't have it yet.
So it sort of says, I promise I'm
gonna go get you this value but
I don't have it yet.
So a promise is a construct
in JavaScript that lets
us represent a value
that we don't have yet.
And often, this comes up not exclusively,
sometimes it comes up to things
that happen really quickly.
But mostly, it becomes relevant when we're
talking about things that it's gonna take
a while for us to get the value of.
So we talk about having
a promise of a value, and
promises can be in three possible states.
So if you notice when I ran my code before
it said promise .
And pending state is when a promise is
sort of like still waiting for the value.
And so JavaScript is saying essentially
via that </state> "pending"
like hang tight, I promise I'm
gonna get this I'm working on it.
Then, there are two other states
that we could have a promise in.
One is called fulfilled, which you might
also hear the word resolved use a lot.
There's some differences, but we can
think of them as equivalent for now,
which basically means success.
I finally got the value,
and we're all done.
And then, there's another state that
promises could be in which is called
rejected, which is sort of
like JavaScript saying, sorry.
Something went wrong here, I couldn't get
the value, and I washed my hands of this,
I'm done.
This promise did not succeed,
so rejected, we could say.
And sometimes, you'll hear the word
resolved to mean fulfilled, and
sometimes you'll hear the word resolved
to mean either fulfilled or rejected,
so there's a lot of confusing
terminology in here.
But suffice it to say that a promise can
either be still in the works, pending, or
it can be finished.
And what we want usually is for
the promise to be fulfilled
with the value that we want.
And since it takes time for
promises to resolve we say
promises are also asynchronous.
Yeah, question.
>> Are promises only use with API
call outs or will you see them and
other long running processes?
>> Yeah you can see promises
in other cases too.
Fetch is one example of an operation or
a function that returns a promise,
there's a lots of others.
And in fact, we're gonna see
another one that doesn't involve
talking to the network or
going and getting something,
it's all happening locally but
it still takes a little time.
So we will see another example, but
yes no, they do come up in other contexts.
Fetch is just I think a great example of
something that is gonna take time to get
stuff from the network.
So what's happening basically is
like when we say, hey, JavaScript,
I want this hound list.
JavaScript, you're saying like, okay,
I got you, I'm adding this fetching,
I'm gonna go do it, go get you that value.
But meanwhile,
let me keep trying to run your code.
JavaScript is like Joey and
friends, he's like, I want to go.
JavaScript like I wanna keep going
through your code, don't make me stop and
wait to get this data before running
through the rest of your code.
However, unlike with something where we
don't wanna freeze the webpage, basically
our program here, it can't really do
much without the dog data that we need.
So sometimes, we do want JavaScript to
stop and wait in executing our code.
And we wish that we could just
tell JavaScript like no, no, no,
really wait for me, wait for
this value to come back.
Wait for that promise to fulfill or to
resolve before you go on and try to keep
running my code because if you keep
trying to run my code without that data,
I can't do anything meaningful.
So sometimes, we want JavaScript to stop
and wait for the promise to resolve,
and that is where a friend of
the keyword await comes in,
which as the spice girls say,
says stop right now.
Thank you very much, I want you to wait
for this asynchronous operation to finish,
I want you to wait for in this case,
the promise to be fulfilled.